# Банк вопросов и ответов по базам данных

1. **What is SQL?**

   Answer №1: The acronym SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is the typical language used for relational database maintenance and a wide range of data processing tasks. The first SQL database was created in 1970. It is a database language used for operations such as database creation, deletion, retrieval, and row modification. It is occasionally pronounced “sequel.” It can also be used to manage structured data, which is made up of variables called entities and relationships between those entities.

2. **How to create a table in SQL?**

   Answer №1: The command to create a table in SQL is extremely simple:

   ``` sql
    CREATE TABLE table_name (
  	column1 datatype,
  	column2 datatype,
  	column3 datatype,
     ....
    );
   ```
   We will start off by giving the keywords, CREATE TABLE, and then we will give the name of the table. After that in braces, we will list out all the columns along with their data types.

   For example, if we want to create a simple employee table:
   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE employee (
	 name varchar(25),
	 age int,
	 gender varchar(25),
   ....
   );
   ```

3. **How to delete a table in SQL?**

   Answer №1: There are two ways to delete a table from SQL: DROP and TRUNCATE. The DROP TABLE command is used to completely delete the table from the database. This is the command:

   ```sql
   DROP TABLE table_name;
   ```
   The above command will completely delete all the data present in the table along with the table itself.
  
   But if we want to delete only the data present in the table but not the table itself, then we will use the truncate command:

   ```sql
   TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
   ```
4. **How to change a table name in SQL?**

   Answer №1: This is the command to change a table name in SQL:
   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE table_name
   RENAME TO new_table_name;
   ```
   We will start off by giving the keywords ALTER TABLE, then we will follow it up by giving the original name of the table, after that, we will give in the keywords RENAME TO and finally, we will give the new table name.

   For example, if we want to change the “employee” table to “employee_information”, this will be the command:

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE employee
   RENAME TO employee_information;
   ```

5. **How to delete a row in SQL?**

   Answer №1: We will be using the DELETE query to delete existing rows from the table:

   ```sql 
   DELETE FROM table_name
   WHERE [condition];
   ```

   We will start off by giving the keywords DELETE FROM, then we will give the name of the table, and after that we will give the WHERE clause and give the condition on the basis of which we would want to delete a row.

   For example, from the employee table, if we would like to delete all the rows, where the age of the employee is equal to 25, then this will be the command:

   ```sql
   DELETE FROM employee
   WHERE [age=25];
   ```

6. **How to create a database in SQL?**

   Answer №1: A database is a repository in SQL, which can comprise multiple tables.

   This will be the command to create a database in sql:
   ```sql	
   CREATE DATABASE database_name.
   ```

7. **What is Normalization in SQL?**

   Answer №1: Normalization is used to decompose a larger, complex table into simple and smaller ones. This helps us in removing all the redundant data.

   Generally, in a table, we will have a lot of redundant information which is not required, so it is better to divide this complex table into multiple smaller tables which contain only unique information.

   **First normal form:**
   A relation schema is in 1NF, if and only if:

   - All attributes in the relation are atomic(indivisible value)
   - And there are no repeating elements or groups of elements.

   **Second normal form:**
   A relation is said to be in 2NF, if and only if:

   - It is in 1st Normal Form.
   - No partial dependency exists between non-key attributes and key attributes.
   
   **Third Normal form:**

   A relation R is said to be in 3NF if and only if:

   - It is in 2NF.
   - No transitive dependency exists between non-key attributes and key attributes through another non-key attribute


8. **What is join in SQL?**

   Answer №1: Joins are used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them.

   Types of Joins:

   • **INNER JOIN** − Returns rows when there is a match in both tables.

   • **LEFT JOIN** − Returns all rows from the left table, even if there are no matches in the right table.

   • **RIGHT JOIN** − Returns all rows from the right table, even if there are no matches in the left table.

   • **FULL OUTER JOIN** − Returns rows when there is a match in one of the tables.

   • **SELF JOIN** − Used to join a table to itself as if the table were two tables, temporarily renaming at least one table in the SQL statement.

   • **CARTESIAN JOIN** (CROSS JOIN) − Returns the Cartesian product of the sets of records from the two or more joined tables.

   **INNER JOIN:**
   The INNER JOIN creates a new result table by combining column values of two tables (table1 and table2) based upon the join-predicate. The query compares each row of table1 with each row of table2 to find all pairs of rows which satisfy the join-predicate.

   **SYNTAX:**
   ```sql
   SELECT table1.col1, table2.col2,…, table1.coln
   FROM table1
   INNER JOIN table2
   ON table1.commonfield = table2.commonfield;
   ```
   **LEFT JOIN:**

   The LEFT JOIN returns all the values from the left table, plus matched values from the right table or NULL in case of no matching join predicate.

   **SYNTAX:**
   ```sql
   SELECT table1.col1, table2.col2,…, table1.coln
   FROM table1
   LEFT JOIN table2
   ON table1.commonfield = table2.commonfield;
   ```

   **RIGHT JOIN:**

   The RIGHT JOIN returns all the values from the right table, plus matched values from the left table or NULL in case of no matching join predicate.

   **SYNTAX:**
   ```sql
   SELECT table1.col1, table2.col2,…, table1.coln
   FROM table1
   RIGHT JOIN table2
   ON table1.commonfield = table2.commonfield;
   ```
   
   **FULL OUTER JOIN:**

   The FULL OUTER JOIN combines the results of both left and right outer joins. The joined table will contain all records from both the tables and fill in NULLs for missing matches on either side.

   **SYNTAX:**
   ```sql
   SELECT table1.col1, table2.col2,…, table1.coln
   FROM table1
   Left JOIN table2
   ON table1.commonfield = table2.commonfield;
   Union
   SELECT table1.col1, table2.col2,…, table1.coln
   FROM table1
   Right JOIN table2
   ON table1.commonfield = table2.commonfield;
   ```
   
   **SELF JOIN:**

   The SELF JOIN joins a table to itself; temporarily renaming at least one table in the SQL statement.

   **SYNTAX:**
   ```sql
   SELECT a.col1, b.col2,..., a.coln
   FROM table1 a, table1 b
   WHERE a.commonfield = b.commonfield;
   ```
   
9. **What is Primary Key in SQL?**

    Answer №1: You can consider the Primary Key constraint to be a combination of UNIQUE and NOT NULL constraint. This means that if a column is set as a primary key, then this particular column cannot have any null values present in it and also all the values present in this column must be unique.

10. **How to delete a column in SQL?**

    Answer №1: To delete a column in SQL we will be using DROP COLUMN method:

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE employees
    DROP COLUMN age;
    ```

    We will start off by giving the keywords ALTER TABLE, then we will give the name of the table, following which we will give the keywords DROP COLUMN and finally give the name of the column which we would want to remove.

11. **What is SQL injection?**

    Answer №1: SQL injection is a hacking technique which is widely used by black-hat hackers to steal data from your tables or databases. Let’s say, if you go to a website and give in your user information and password, the hacker would add some malicious code over there such that, he can get the user information and password directly from the database. If your database contains any vital information, it is always better to keep it secure from SQL injection attacks.

12. **How to copy table in SQL?**

    Answer №1: We can use the SELECT INTO statement to copy data from one table to another. Either we can copy all the data or only some specific columns.

    This is how we can copy all the columns into a new table:

    ```sql
    SELECT *
    INTO newtable
    FROM oldtable
    WHERE condition;
    ```

    If we want to copy only some specific columns, we can do it this way:

    ```sql
    SELECT column1, column2, column3, ...
    INTO newtable 
    FROM oldtable
    WHERE condition;
    ```

13. **How to add a new column in SQL?**

    Answer №1: We can add a new column in SQL with the help of alter command: 

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE employees ADD COLUMN contact INT(10);
    ```

    This command helps us to add a new column named as contact in the employees table.

14. **How do we avoid getting duplicate entries in a query?**

    Answer №1: The SELECT DISTINCT is used to get distinct data from tables using a query. The below SQL query selects only the DISTINCT values from the “Country” column in the “Customers” table:

    ```sql
    SELECT DISTINCT Country FROM Customers;
    ```

15. **What is Case WHEN in SQL?**

    Answer №1: If you have knowledge about other programming languages, then you’d have learnt about if-else statements. You can consider Case WHEN to be analogous to that.

    In Case WHEN, there will be multiple conditions and we will choose something on the basis of these conditions.

    Here is the syntax for CASE WHEN:
 
    ```sql
    CASE
       WHEN condition1 THEN result1
       WHEN condition2 THEN result2
       WHEN conditionN THEN resultN
       ELSE result
    END;
    ```

    We start off by giving the CASE keyword, then we follow it up by giving multiple WHEN, THEN statements.

16. **Difference between SQL and NoSQL databases?**

    Answer №1: SQL stands for structured query language and is majorly used to query data from relational databases. When we talk about a SQL database, it will be a relational database. 

    But when it comes to the NoSQL databases, we will be working with non-relational databases.

17. **How to use BETWEEN in SQL?**

    Answer №1: The BETWEEN operator checks an attribute value within a range. Here is an example of BETWEEN operator:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM employees WHERE salary between 10000 and 20000;
    ```

    With this command, we will be able to extract all the records where the salary of the employee is between 10000 and 20000.

18. **Difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?**

    Answer №1: CHAR is used to store fixed-length character strings, and VARCHAR2 is used to store variable-length character strings.

19. **What is a deadlock?**

    Answer №1: It is an unwanted situation where two or more transactions are waiting indefinitely for one another to release the locks. 

20. **What do you understand by Data Redundancy?**

    Answer №1: Duplication of data in the database is known as data redundancy. As a result of data redundancy, duplicated data is present at multiple locations, hence it leads to wastage of the storage space and the integrity of the database is destroyed


