# Банк вопросов и ответов по питону

1. **What are the types of operators in Python?**

   Answer №1: Python divides the operators in the following groups:
    1. Arithmetic operators
    2. Assignment operators
    3. Comparison operators
    4. Logical operators
    5. Identity operators
    6. Membership operators
    7. Bitwise operators

2. **What can be the keys of a dictionary in Python?**

   Answer №1: When answering this interview question, a junior Python developer candidate may answer None, strings, or numbers. A mid-level developer may mention booleans, tuples, or any immutable object. However, a senior Python developer is expected to answer that any hashable object can be the key of a dictionary.

   Any hashable object is immutable. As an example, the code below is correct as this tuple and all of its elements are hashable. Please be aware that sets, dictionaries, and lists are not hashable, therefore cannot be the keys of a dictionary. 

   ```python 
      my_d = {
             (12, "job", (1, 2, 3)): 123
         }
   ```

3. **What are the usages of nonlocal and global keywords in Python?**

   Answer №1: 
   ```python 
      variable = "hello 1" # This variable is declared in the Global scope

      def fun():
          global variable # Without this we would not be able to change the variable value
          variable = "hello 2"
          
      fun()
      print(variable) # "hello 2"
      ………………………………………………………………..
      def outer():
          variable = "hello 1" # This variable is declared in a Local scope
          
          def inner():
              nonlocal variable # Without this keyword we could not change the variable value
              variable = "hello 2"
          
          inner()
          print(variable)
          
      outer() # "hello 2"
   ```
   
4. **WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENT DATA TYPES IN PYTHON?**   
       
   Answer №1: Python supports several built-in data types, including:
   - **None**,
   - **numeric** (integers, floats, and complex numbers),
   - **Boolean**,
   - **sequence** (lists, tuples, and ranges),
   - **binary** (bytes and bytearrays),
   - **string** (unicode and byte strings),
   - **mapping** (dictionaries),
   - **set types** (sets and frozensets),
   - **callables** (functions, methods, and classes),
   - and **modules**.
   
   Understanding these data types is crucial for effective programming in Python.

   Answer №2: Python has six standard data types. Data types are the classification of data items and represent the kind of value that shows what operations can be performed on a particular data. Because everything is an object in Python, they’re actually classes. Variables are instances of the classes. 

   The data types in Python are: 
   
   - Numbers 
   - String 
   - List 
   - Tuple
   - Set 
   - Dictionary
 
5. **What is PIP and how do you use it?**

   Answer №1: PIP is a Python package manager that’s used to simplify the installation and management of third-party libraries. Some of the tasks it enables you to do include: 

   - Installing packages with the command **pip install package_name**
   
   - Specifying versions with the command **pip install package_name==version**
   
   - Upgrading packages with the command **pip install --upgrade package_name** 
   
   - Uninstalling packages with the command **pip uninstall package_name**
   
   - Listing installed packages with the command pip list
   
   - Installing packages from a **requirements.txt** file with the command **pip install -r requirements.txt**

6. **Explain exception handling in Python**

   Answer №1: Exception handling refers to the process of managing and responding to runtime errors or unexpected situations that can occur when a program is being executed. 

   You can catch and handle these errors with the try, except, else, and finally blocks. Here’s how: 
   1. Place the code that could raise an exception/error in the **try** block.
   2. Use the **except** block to specify the exception you’re trying to catch. You can add multiple **except** blocks if necessary. If an exception is raised in the **try** block, it will execute the code in the relevant **except** block.
   3. Use the **else** block to add the code that you want to execute if there are no exceptions. This block is optional.
   4. The **finally** block is also optional and is executed last, regardless of whether or not there are exceptions. 

   Here’s an example where a user enters a number, and an exception is raised if they enter zero or a non-numeric number: 

   ```python 
     try: 
          num = int(input("Enter a number: "))
          result = 10 / num
   
      except ZeroDivisionError:
          print("Cannot divide by zero.")
      
      except ValueError:
          print("Invalid input. Please enter a number.")
      
      else:
          print("Result:", result)
      
      finally:
          print("Exception handling complete.")
      ```

7. **Explain, with code, how you would copy an object in Python**

   Answer №1: The easiest way to copy an object in Python is with the **copy** module. This enables you to create both shallow copies and deep copies. 
   
   Shallow copies create new objects without copies of any nested objects. Because of this, changes to nested objects in the original can still affect the copied object. Here’s what the code looks like for a shallow copy: 

   ```python
   
      import copy
      
      original_list = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]
      
      shallow_copied_list = copy.copy(original_list)
      
      original_list[0][0] = 99  # Modifying the original list
      
      print(shallow_copied_list)  # Changes are reflected in the shallow copy
   ```

   On the other hand, deep copies create new objects, along with copies of all nested objects. This means that changes to original nested objects aren’t reflected in the copy. Here’s what the code looks like for a deep copy. 

   ```python 

      import copy
      
      original_list = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]
      
      deep_copied_list = copy.deepcopy(original_list)
      
      original_list[0][0] = 99  # Modifying the original list
      
      print(deep_copied_list)  # Deep copy remains unchanged
   ```

   It’s important to note that not all objects can be copied. Objects that aren’t copyable will raise an exception with the copy module. 

8. **What’s the difference between a Python package and a Python module?**

   Answer №1: Packages and modules are both mechanisms for organizing and structuring code, but they have different purposes and characteristics. 

    For starters, a Python module is a single file containing Python code. It can define functions, variables, and other objects that are used elsewhere in your program. Because of this, modules are particularly useful for organizing related code into separate files, enabling you to easily manage your codebase and improve code reuse. 
   
   Meanwhile, packages are code packets that contain multiple modules and/or sub-packages. This enables you to organize related modules in a single directory. 
   
   Packages are particularly important for larger projects that involve multiple code files and functionalities. 

9. **What is the Difference Between Lists and Tuples?**

   Answer №1: Lists in python are mutable i.e. they can be edited, whereas tuples are immutable i.e. they can’t be edited. Lists are comparatively slower than tuples but it also offers more functionality like inserting, deleting, modifying, etc.

10. **What is the __init__ method?**

    Answer №1: __init__ is a constructor method that is automatically called to allocate memory whenever an object/instance of the class is created. Its task of constructors is to initialize (assign values) to the data members of the class when an object of the class is created.

11. **What are decorators in Python?**

    Answer №1: In Python, decorators are functions that modify the behavior of other functions or classes. They provide a way to extend or enhance the functionality of existing code without altering its original source code. Decorators are defined using the **@decorator_name** syntax and can be applied to functions or classes to add additional features or behavior

12. **What are generators in Python? How are they different from lists?**

    Answer №1: In Python, generators are functions or expressions that allow for the creation of iterator objects. They generate values on the fly using the yield keyword, making them memory-efficient. Unlike lists, which store all elements in memory at once, generators produce values on demand, enabling efficient processing of large or infinite sequences

13. **Explain mutable vs immutable types?**

    Answer №1: An **immutable** type cannot be changed. Examples are integers, floats, strings, tuples. A **mutable** type can change. Examples are lists, dictionaries, sets, classes.

    For the follow-up, you want the candidate to explain how immutable types point to actual values, whereas immutable types are pointers to locations in memory so are subject to change.

14. **Define and name the keywords in python**

    Answer №1: In python, keywords are reserved words that have special meaning. There are a total of 33 keywords in python:

    And, Or, Not, If, Elif, Else, For, While, Break, As, Def, Lambda, Pass, Return, True, False, Try, With, Assert, Class, Continue, Del, Except, Finally, From, Global, Import, In, Is, None, Nonlocal, Raise & Yield

15. а

   Answer №1: 

16. а

   Answer №1: 

17. а

   Answer №1: 

18. а

   Answer №1: 

19. а

   Answer №1: 

20. а

   Answer №1: 



