# Банк вопросов и ответов по джанго

1. **What is Django?**

   Answer №1: Django is a Full-stack web development framework that facilitates the creation and maintenance of high-quality Dynamic pages while also encouraging rapid development and a clean, pragmatic style. Django makes it easier to automate repeated operations, resulting in a more efficient development process with fewer lines of code. 

2. **What is Flask, and how does it differ from Django?**

   Answer №1: Flask is a lightweight and flexible web framework for Python. It takes a minimalist approach, providing essential components for web development without enforcing strict architectural patterns like Django. Flask allows developers to have more freedom and flexibility in designing their application structure and choosing additional libraries or tools. It is often favored for smaller projects or when more fine-grained control is required.

3. **What is the difference between a Project and an App?**

   Answer №1: The main difference between a project and an app is that a project is defined as the entire application whereas, an app is part of the project that is self-sufficient to perform any task.

4. **Explain Django’s architecture.**

   Answer №1: The Model-View-Template also known as MVT architecture is used by Django. It is a software design pattern for developing a web application. The Django MVT Structure is made up of three parts:

   - The model will serve as an interface for your data. It is in charge of data management. A database represents the logical data structure that supports the entire application such as MySql and Postgres.
   - The View is the user interface, that renders a website page in your browser. HTML/CSS/Javascript and Jinja files are used to represent it.
   - A template is made up of both static sections of the desired HTML output and specific syntax that describes how dynamic content will be included.

5. **Explain the Django project directory structure.**

   Answer №1: When you first start a Django project, it comes with some basic files like manage.py and view.py.

   1. **init.py** – It’s an empty Python file. It is called when the package or one of its modules is imported. This file tells the Python interpreter that this directory is a package and that the presence of the __init.py_ file makes it a Python project.
   2. **manage.py** – This file is used to interact with your project from the command line utility. with the help of this command, we can manage several commands such as: 
      1. manage.py runserver
      2. manage.py makemigration
      3. manage.py migrate’ etc
   3. **setting.py** – It is the most important file in Django projects. It holds all the configuration values that your web app needs to work, i.e. pre-installed, apps, middleware, default database, API keys, and a bunch of other stuff. 
   4. **views.py** – The View shows the user the model’s data. The view knows how to get to the data in the model, but it has no idea what that data represents or what the user may do with it.
   5. **urls.py** – It is a universal resource locator which contains all the endpoints, we store all links of the project and functions to call it.
   6. **models.py** – The Model represents the models of web applications in the form of classes, it contains no logic that describes how to present the data to a user.
   7. **wsgi.py** – WSGI stands for Web Server Gateway Interface, This file is used for deploying the project in WSGI. It helps communication between your Django application and the web server.
   8. **admin.py** – It is used to create a superuser Registering model, login, and use the web application.
   9. **app.py** – It is a file that helps the user to include the application configuration for their app.

6. **How do you create a Django project?**

   Answer №1: We can create a Django project with the help of the following command:
   ```python
      django-admin startproject projectname
   ```

7. **How do you create a Django app?**

   Answer №1: We can create a Django app with the help of the following command:
   ```python
      python manage.py startapp appname
   ```

8. **How do we start our development server?**

   Answer №1: We can start our development server with the help of the following command:
   ```python
      python manage.py runserver
   ```
9. **What does the settings.py file do?**

   Answer №1: **settings.py** is a core file in Django projects. It holds all the configuration values that your web app needs to work; database settings, logging configuration, where to find static files, API keys if you work with external APIs, and a bunch of other stuff.

10. **What is Django ORM?**

   Answer №1: ORM which is also known as the object relation model enables us to interact with our database. It allows us to add, delete, change, and query objects (Object Relational Mapper). Django uses a database abstraction API called ORM to interface Viewed with its database models, to use Django object relation Models, we must first have a project and an app running. Models can be created in app/models.py after an app has been started. The Django ORM may be accessed by running the following command in our project directory.
   ```python
      python manage.py shell
   ```
   This opens a Python console where we may add objects, retrieve objects, modify existing items, and delete objects. 

11. **What is Superuser?**

   Answer №1: **superuser** is the most powerful user with permission to create, read, delete, and update on the admin page which includes model records and another user. Users of Django have access to an Admin Panel. Before using this feature, you must have to migrate your project; otherwise, the superuser database will not be created. To create a superuser,  first, reach the same directory, and run the following command
   ```python
      python manage.py createsuperuser
   ```

12. **What do you mean by the csrf_token?**

   Answer №1: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is one of the most serious vulnerabilities, and it can be used to do everything from changing a user’s information without their knowledge to obtaining full control of their account. To prevent malicious attacks, Django provides a per cent token per cent tag **{\% csrf_token \%}** that is implemented within the form. When generating the page on the server, it generates a token and ensures that any requests coming back in are cross-checked against this token. The token is not included in the inbound requests, thus they are not executed.

13. **Explain the use of Middlewares in Django.**

   Answer №1: Middleware is a lightweight plugin in Django that is used to keep the application secure during request and response processing. The application’s middleware is utilized to complete a task. Security, session, CSRF protection, and authentication are responsible for doing some specific functions. The application’s security is maintained by the usage of the middleware component, **AuthenticationMiddleware** which is associated with user requests using sessions.
   Answer №2: You use middleware for four different functions:

   - Content Gzipping
   - Cross-site request forgery protection
   - Session management
   - User authentication
   
14. **What are ‘signals’?**

   Answer №1: Signals are used to take action in response to the modification or creation of a database entry. Its utilities help us to connect events with their action. we can create methods that will run a signal when it is called. For example, as soon as a new user instance is generated in the Database, one might want to create a profile instance. Generally, There are 3 types of signals.

   1. pre_delete/post_delete: This signal is thrown before the remove() method is used to delete a model’s instance.
   2. pre_init/post_init: This signal is thrown before/after instantiating a model (__init__() method)
   3. pre_save/post_save: This signal works before/after the method save().

15. **How do you connect your Django Project to the database?**

   Answer №1: We need to configure our database in the settings.py file. By default, **SQLite** is mentioned there, and we need to change this setting accordingly like **Postgres**, **MongoDB**, and **MySql**.
   Answer №2: The following databases are that Django formally supports:
      - PostgreSQL
      - MariaDB
      - MySQL
      - Oracle
      - SQLite


16. **Explain Django Security.**

   Answer №1: The security of users’ data is an important aspect of any website design. Django provides adequate security against a number of common threats. Django’s security features are as follows:

   - Cross-site scripting (XSS) protection
   - SQL injection protection
   - Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) protection
   - Enforcing SSL/HTTPS
   - Session security
   - Clickjacking protection
   - Host header validation

17. **Explain user authentication in Django**

   Answer №1: Django comes with an authentication system configured by default to handle objects like users, groups, permissions, and so on. The authentication system’s core is made up of user objects. It not only authenticates users but also authorizes them. Aside from using the default, we can employ a variety of web apps instead of using the default system to enable more user authentication. The default system objects are as follows:

   - Users
   - Permissions
   - Groups
   - Password Hashing System
   - Forms Validation
   - A pluggable backend system

18. **What is a context in Django?**

   Answer №1: In Django, a context is a dictionary in which the keys represent variable names and the values reflect the values of those variables. This dictionary or context is supplied to the template, which finally outputs the dynamic content using the variables. i.e. {var1: 11, var2: 12}, when you pass this context to the template render method, {{ var1 }} would be replaced with 11 and {{ var2 }} with 12 in your template.

19. **What is CRUD?**

   Answer №1: It has nothing to do with dirt or grime. It’s a handy acronym for Create, Read, Update, and Delete. It’s a mnemonic framework used to remind developers on how to construct usable models when building application programming interfaces (APIs).

20. **What is django.shortcuts.render function?**

   Answer №1: The render() function is a shortcut provided by Django for rendering a template with a context and returning it as an HttpResponse object. The render() function is usually used in Django views

